---
title: The cat command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `cat` command is for conCATenting (joining) files.

However, this command allows you to do much more, which we describe below.


## Usage

The simplest usage of the command is
```
cat [foo]
```
displays the contents of file [foo] on the terminal.
You can now easily look at the content of text files, without having to leave your terminal!

If you give more files as arguments, they will simply be displayed one after the other.
```
cat [foo] [bar]
```
displays the contents of file [foo] on the terminal, and then the contents of file [bar] on the terminal.
This is exactly why the command is called concatenate.
It joins files together and prints them on the screen.

You can get the output lines numbered by using
```
cat -n [foo]
```


You can suppress repeated blank lines from the output using `-s` or `--squeeze-blank`
```
cat -s [foo]
```


## Tips

1. `cat` output will not make sense if you try it on non-plaintext files, such as Openoffice documents.
2. What if the file is too big and will fill up your entire terminal? Don't worry, we will sort that out in next post.
3. What happens if I run `cat` without a file arguemnt?
Well, `cat` assumes that you are going to type the file content on the terminal.

After you type something and press ENTER, `cat` will print back what you typed, and wait for another line.
To get out of this situation, Press Ctrl-C.
4. You may be wondering how to join files and put the joined result in a new file.
That is very useful and can be done, we will study it in a later article.


## Experiment

As an experiment, write a few text files using your GUI text editor (Gedit, Mousepad, Kate, whatever).

Open a terminal and list the files using `ls` (revise [here](/linux/ls) if you forgot about `ls`.)

Use `cat` to view text files individually. (Don't forget TAB completion to save typing.)

Use `cat` to display files one after the other in different orders.

Get your lines numbered.

Make a file with lots of repeated blank lines and use `cat` to display the output after stripping the blank lines off.

Does `cat` change the original files? Inspect and find out.


## Conclusion

This command helps you to display files, and also to display the result after joining files.

This is a simple command to quickly view small text files directly in your terminal.

---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!

*Further reading:* [cat Manpage](https://manpages.org/cat)

*Previous article:* [The mkdir command](/linux/mkdir)

*Next article:* [The less command](/linux/less)

*All Linux articles:* [Linux Tutorials](/linux)
