---
title: The ls command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `ls` command is perhaps the most used command in a commandline interface.


The command stands for list directory contents. (It is not an acronym.)

This command lists the files and directories in any given directory.

In our tutorials so far, we learnt the [cd](/linux/cd) command to navigate the filesystem, and the [pwd](/linux/pwd) command to know out working directory.
The `ls` command helps you to see what is inside directories.


## Usage

The `ls` command accepts many options.
It is possible even to mix several options.
We will cover only a few commonly used ones here.

If you wish to know more, you can always refer to the Further Reading link at the bottom of this post.

Usage without arguments:

```
ls
```

Prints the names of files and directories in the current working directory.
Files and directories whose names start with a dot `.`, are not shown. (These are hidden files in Linux.)


### Controlling display of hidden files, and displaying details

To display hidden files and directories as well, you would use the option `-a` or `--all`, like
```
ls -a
```
Prints the names of files and directories in the current working directory, including hidden ones.


To display details of the files such as permissions, size, and modification time, use the option `-l`
```
ls -l
```
Prints the names of files and directories, with more information like modification time and size (in bytes).

To better display the size (in kilobytes, megabytes, etc.), use the `-h` flag,
```
ls -lh
```
Prints the names of files and directories, with more information like modification time and size (in easier to read format).


### Controlling the order of displayed items

By default `ls` sorts displayed items by alphabetical order.
However, the order can easily be changed by passing options.

To sort by size, use `-S`
```
ls -lhS
```
Same as `ls -lh`, but files are sorted by size, largest first.

To sort by time, use `-t`
```
ls -lht
```
Same as `ls -lh`, but files are sorted by modification time, most recent first.

To reverse sort order, use `-r`
```
ls -lhtr
```
Same as `ls -lh`, but files are sorted by modification time, oldest first.
```
ls -lhSr
```
Same as `ls -lh`, but files are sorted by size, smallest first.


### Controlling which files are shown

For a directory [dir],
```
ls [dir]
```
displays the contents of [dir].
Of course, you can use any options here to make `ls` display the order and details you need.

For a PATTERN, display files and directories matching the PATTERN.
```
ls t*.txt
```
displays only those files whose names start with a 't' and end in '.txt'.

More on PATTERNs in a later tutorial, they are a vast topic of their own.

Finally, to display files and directories recursively (within subdirectories and so on), use `-R`
```
ls -R
```
displays the contents of directories, and subdirectories, subdirectories of subdirectories and so on.


Note that there are many more options available.
Only the most commonly used ones have been covered here.


## Experiment

As an experiment, create a few folders and subfolders with shortcuts.

Using your GUI file manager, navigate to some of the folders, open terminals there (you should find this option in your File Manager's File menu).

Try to navigate through your set of directories using the `cd` command ([link](/linux/cd) to a tutorial if you need it).
You can always check the full current directory using `pwd`. (If you missed the article on that, here is the [link](/linux/pwd)).

Try to `ls` with various options.

Display in various sort orders and display different levels of detail.

Also try the recursive `-R` flag and view nested directory structure at a glance.

Mix and match various options, and see if you get the result you expected.
For example, what does `ls -lRrht` do?

Read about patterns and see how you can use them to list only the files that you need.

Use `ls` to list directories, and then `cd` into any directory you see.

Explore.
That is exactly what the `ls` command allows you to do.


## Conclusion

This command helps you display the files and directories in the current working directory, or any other chosen directory.

This command has a rich set of options which I have not covered here.
However, what is given here is enough just enough to help you hop through your filesystem with some practice.
As you go along, you can read more and take advantage of additional options.

This is a command you will probably use the most.
So, please take some time and learn to use it effectively.

---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!

*Further reading:* [ls Manpage](https://manpages.org/ls); [More on patterns](https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/pattern-matching-bash)

*Previous article:* [The cd command](/linux/cd)

*Next article:* [The mkdir command](/linux/mkdir)

*All Linux articles:* [Linux Tutorials](/linux)
