---
title: The date command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `date` command allows you view and change the system time and date.


## Usage

## Viewing the date and time now

```
date
```
Displays the current time in a format dependent on your system settings.

To change the format, we can specify a format like
```
date '+%H-%M'
```
prints the time in HH-MM format.
Refer to `man date` for all the availabe formatting options.


## Viewing the date and time for a specified timestamp

Use the `-d` option to specify a date which you can then format.

```
date -d [DATESTRING]
```

For example
```
date -d '20 days ago' '+%d-%m'
```
prints the day and month for the date which was 20 days ago.

For more information on DATESTRINGs, refer to `info date`.


## Modifying the system date and time

Use the `-s` option to set the date and the time on the system clock.

```
date -s '+10 minutes'
```
will increase the time on the system clock by 10 minutes.

Note that you need sufficient priviledges on the system for this to work.

The change may not be persistent, because this command may not update the hardware clock on some systems.

Do not set the wrong date and time on your computer, it can lead to problems with the SSL certificate.


## Experiment

Read about various formatting options for `date`.
Note the interesting ones.

Find the day of the week of the coming New Years Day using `date`.

Find the date of the next Sunday using `date`.


## Conclusion

This command allows you to view and manipulate dates and times.

It is useful for things like finding day of the week of a specified date, finding the date after a specified number of days, and for adding timestamps to logs


---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!


*Previous article:* [The touch command](/linux/touch)

*Next article:* [The info command](/linux/info)

*All Linux articles:* [Linux Tutorials](/linux)
