---
title: The mkdir command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `mkdir` command is a command for making directories.

The mkdir stands for MaKe DIRectories.

This command allows you to create a new directory.

The commands we studied so far ([pwd](/linux/pwd), [cd](/linux/cd), and [ls](/linux/ls)) let you navigate and view the contents of your filesystem.
This is our first command to add new stuff to the filesystem.


## Usage

The primary usage of the command is
```
mkdir [name]
```
creates a new directory named [name] in your current working directory.

To make a new directory at some other path (the path should already exist), use
```
mkdir [path]/[name]
```

To make a new directory at some other path, which does not yet exist (that means we need to create directories as we go along), use the `-p` (parent) flag.
```
mkdir -p [nameLevel1]/[nameLevel2]/[nameLevel3]
```
Will lead to the directory tree
```
CurrentDirectory
└── nameLevel1
    └── nameLevel2
        └── nameLevel3

```

You can also make multiple directories at once, like so
```
mkdir [dirName1] [dirName2] [dirName3]
```
Will lead to the directory tree
```
CurrentDirectory
├── dirName1
├── dirName2
├── dirName3
```

**Tip**: To make a directory names with spaces in them, escape the spaces with a '\',
```
mkdir My\ Directory\ Name\ With\ Spaces
```
Having spaces in file and directory names is not a very good idea.


## Experiment

As an experiment, create a few folders and subfolders, using your newly learnt `mkdir` command.

Practice `ls`, `cd`, and `pwd` commands also while you are at it.

Get into the directories you created.

Go to the parent directories, and `ls` to view the contents.

Use `pwd` to monitor where you are.

Use `-p` to create a chain of nested directories.

Type the command
```
mkdir dir1 dir1 dir3 dir4
```
Predict what it does.

Would you be slower or faster achieving this with your GUI filemanager?

Type the command
```
mkdir -p dir1/dir1/dir3/dir4
```
Predict what it does.

Would you be slower or faster achieving this with your GUI filemanager?

Look again at the example in the **Tip** above.
What will happen if someone forgets to escape the spaces?
Think about it, and try it out.


## Conclusion

This command helps you to create your own directories.

This is a basic and important command you should always have at your fingertips.

---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!

*Further reading:* [mkdir Manpage](https://manpages.org/mkdir)

*Previous article:* [The ls command](/linux/cd)

*Next article:* [The cat command](/linux/cat)

*All Linux articles:* [Linux Tutorials](/linux)
