---
title: The echo command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `echo` command allows you to write strings to the terminal.

It allows us print values of variables, and to view expanded globs.
(You may not be familiar with these concepts right now, but we will introduce them later.For the time being, all you need to understand is that `echo` is more useful than printing the given strings verbatim.)


## Usage

```
echo STRING
```
Echoes the STRING to the terminal.
The terminal output is also known as **standard output** or **stdout**.

For example,
```
echo "Hello!"
```
ouputs "Hello!" to stdout.


## Experiment

Use `echo` to display various strings on stdout.

Make a new directory (use [mkdir](/linux/mkdir)), `cd` into it, and create new files there (using [touch](/linux/touch)).

Now type in `echo *`. What happens here?

Try `echo '*'`. What happens now?

What happens here is called 'globbing'.
We will discuss it later.

Type in `echo $TERM` and see what happens.

$TERM is what is called a variable.
We will discuss this later.

Type in `echo '$TERM'` and see what happens.



## Conclusion

This command allows you to print text onto the terminal, which is also known as *stdout*.

It is useful also to view variable values and globs (more on that later.)


---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!


*Previous article:* [The info command](/linux/info)

*All Linux articles:* [Linux Tutorials](/linux)
