---
title: The free command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `free` command prints out the used and available memory (RAM).

It is useful for checking how much of the memory is available to use.


## Usage

```
free
```
prints out information about memory in two rows:
`Mem`(for memory or RAM) and `Swap`(for assigned swap space)

Swap space is space assigned on the hard drive, which can store some data from RAM and thus free up some RAM space if required.

This is good because it gives us extra memory.
However, the swap space is slower to access than the RAM.

The columns in the output are explained below

- `total` Total size of memory
- `used` Used memory
- `free` Unused memory
- `shared` Memory shared between processes
- `buff/cache` Memory by kernel buffers and page cache
- `available` Amount of memory available for starting new applications


#### Options

The memory sizes are by default displayed in bytes.
This usually results in long numbers that are hard to read.
Hence, there are many options to set the units of display. See `info free` for more information on these.

A useful option is `-h` or `--human`, which scales the units automatically.

One more useful option is `-s`, or `--seconds-delay` which displays the free memory repeatedly after intervals of the specified number of seconds.
For example,
```
free -h -s 3
```
will repeatedly print the output of `free` every 3 seconds.
To get out of the loop, press Ctrl-C.

Finally, the `-c` or `--count` option allows you to display the output of `free` for a specified number of times.
For example,
```
free -h -s 3 -c 10
```
will display the free memory 10 times with intervals of 3 seconds.

## Experiment

Use the `free` command to find out how much total RAM you have on your system, and how much total swap is assigned on your system.

How much of these resources are used?

Check `info free` and read about the unit options.

Run `free -s 1`, and then start a memory-intensive application such a web browser.

What happens to the output of `free`?


## Conclusion

This command allows you to print details about the memory usage and availability.

It is useful to check the amount of available memory before starting heavy applications.


---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!


*Previous article:* [The echo command](/linux/echo)

*All Linux articles:* [Linux Tutorials](/linux)
