---
title: The touch command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `touch` command allows you to change modification times of files, and to create new files.

You can check the modification time using `ls -l` (Read [here](/linux/ls) about `ls` if you need to revisit.)


## Usage

### Creating new files with modification time of now

```
touch [file1] [file2]
```
If [file1] and [file2] do not exist, the above command will create new files [file1] and [file2] with modification time as the current time.


### Change the moidfication time of existing files to the current time

```
touch [file1] [file2]
```
If [file1] and [file2] already exist, the above command will set the modification times of [file1] and [file2] as the current time.


### Setting arbitrary modification times

```
touch -t CCYYMMDDhhmm.ss [file1] [file2]
```
sets the modification times for [file1] and [file2] to

* `CC` century
* `YY` year
* `MM` month
* `DD` date
* `hh` hour
* `mm` minutes
* `ss` seconds

Century, year, and seconds are optional.


## Experiment

Read the manpage for `touch` (If you need a brush-up on man, click [man](/linux/man)).

Create a few mew files with touch.

Check their times with `ls -l`.

After a few minutes `touch` these files again check the times again.

Try setting the date to any time in the past or futures.
Check results with `ls -l`.


## Conclusion

This is command allows you to make new files, or to change the modification times of files.


---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!


*Previous article:* [The man command](/linux/man)

*All Linux articles:* [Linux Tutorials](/linux)
