---
title: The cd command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `cd` command is an essential command that ाone would use several times during work.

The letters CD stand for Change Directory.

This command changes the current working directory.

This helps you to navigate through the filesystem.


## Usage

This command accepts either one argument, or no arguments.

Usage with one argument:

```
cd [dir]
```

changes the Current Directory to [dir].

For example, `cd Downloads` changes your Current Directory to Downloads. (Provided that there is a directory named `Downloads` within the Current Directory.)

Usage with no arguments:
```
cd
```
changes the Current Directory to your home directory.


# Notes and Tips

1. The path can be a full path (relative to the root directory /). E.g. `cd /etc/usr/bin'. Or, it could be relative to the current directory.
2. Spaces in directory names must be escaped with a `\`. E.g. `cd My\ Videos`
3. You can use `~` to refer to your home directory. E.g. `cd ~/Downloads` will get you to the Downloads direcotry in your home directory.
4. You can type the directory names partially and use the Tab key for auto-completion.
5. To go to the parent directory, use `cd ..`. For parent of the parent, use `cd ../..`.
6. To go to the previous directory, use `cd -`.


## Experiment

As an experiment, create a few folders and subfolders with shortcuts.

Using your GUI file manager, navigate to some of the folders, open terminals there (you should find this option in your File Manager's File menu).

Try to navigate through your set of directories using the `cd` command.
You can always check the full current directory using `pwd`. (If you missed the article on that, here is the [link](/linux/pwd)).

Make sure you practice Tab completion and `cd -`.

Try to think of directories you want to go to, and try to `cd` into them with the minimum number of keystrokes.

You will use this command several times each day, so it is definitely worth it to learn to use it as efficiently as possible.
This will save you a lot of time in the long run.


## Conclusion

This command helps you change your working directory.

This is a command you will use sevaral times every day.
So, please take some time and learn to use it effectively.

---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!

*Further reading:* [cd Manpage](https://manpages.org/cd)
