---
title: The less command
layout: post
author: Vyas
---

The `less` command displays a file in paged form.

This command allows you to view large text files conveniently in a terminal (seeing large files with `cat` was a problem, as we say in the last [post](/linux/cat).)


## Usage

The primary usage of the command is
```
less [file]
```
opens the viewer in the terminal, and displays the contents of the [file] in a paged format.
That is, the file is broken down into pages, and you can easily scroll to any side, and also search for words.

Once you are in the viewer, you can see at the bottom of the terminal a hightlighter line.
It is the status line and it gives you helpful information.

Press h for help, or q to quit and go back to the terminal.

If you press h, you are shown several navigation shortcuts.

A few commonly used ones:

- Space to go to next page
- ENTER to scroll down one line
- h for help
- q to quit
- / to search for a term forwards
- ? to search for a term backwards
- n to repeat search in the same direction
- N to repeat search in reverse direction
- \< to go to the beginning of the file
- \> to go to the end of the file



## Experiment

Use `less` to view any long text file.

Press h when you are in `less`, and look a the shortcuts.
Note down the interesting ones.

Try using `/`,`n`,`?`, and `N` for searching inside it.


## Conclusion

This command helps you to view large text files from the terminal.
It has handy paging and search capabilities.

---

I hope you found this article helpful and learnt from it.

Any questions or suggestions? Feel free to connect on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/CodingComputing)!

*Further reading:* [less Manpage](https://manpages.org/less)

*Previous article:* [The cat command](/linux/cd)

*All Linux articles:* [Linux Tutorials](/linux)
